CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to NeuroGrid

Thank you for your interest in contributing to NeuroGrid! This document provides guidelines and information for contributors.

## 🚀 **Getting Started**

### Prerequisites
- Node.js >= 18.0.0
- Python >= 3.10
- Docker & Docker Compose
- Git

### Development Setup
```bash
# 1. Fork and clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/neurogrid.git
cd neurogrid

# 2. Install dependencies
npm install
cd coordinator-server && npm install
cd ../web-interface && npm install  
cd ../node-client && pip install -r requirements.txt

# 3. Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# 4. Run tests to ensure everything works
npm run test:all

# 5. Start development environment
npm run dev:all
```

## 📋 **How to Contribute**

### 🐛 **Bug Reports**
1. Check existing issues first
2. Use the bug report template
3. Include:
   - Clear description
   - Steps to reproduce
   - Expected vs actual behavior
   - Environment details
   - Screenshots/logs if applicable

### ✨ **Feature Requests**
1. Open an issue with the feature template
2. Describe the problem you're solving
3. Explain your proposed solution
4. Consider alternatives and trade-offs

### 🔧 **Code Contributions**

#### Pull Request Process
1. **Create a branch** from `main`
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

2. **Make your changes**
   - Follow code style guidelines
   - Add tests for new functionality
   - Update documentation as needed

3. **Test your changes**
   ```bash
   npm run test:all
   npm run lint
   ```

4. **Commit with conventional format**
   ```bash
   git commit -m "feat: add new GPU allocation algorithm"
   git commit -m "fix: resolve memory leak in node client"
   git commit -m "docs: update API documentation"
   ```

5. **Push and create PR**
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   ```

#### Commit Convention
We use [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org/):

- `feat:` New features
- `fix:` Bug fixes
- `docs:` Documentation changes
- `style:` Code style changes (formatting, etc.)
- `refactor:` Code refactoring
- `test:` Adding or updating tests
- `chore:` Maintenance tasks

## 🎯 **Areas for Contribution**

### 🔥 **High Priority**
- GPU optimization algorithms
- Security enhancements
- Performance improvements
- Documentation improvements
- Test coverage expansion

### 🌟 **Good First Issues**
- UI/UX improvements
- Error message improvements
- Configuration validation
- Logging enhancements
- Example scripts and tutorials

### 🏗️ **Architecture Areas**
- **Coordinator Server** (Node.js/Express)
- **Web Interface** (Next.js/React)
- **Node Client** (Python)
- **Documentation** (Markdown)
- **DevOps** (Docker/CI/CD)

## 📝 **Code Style Guidelines**

### JavaScript/TypeScript
- Use ESLint configuration in the project
- Prefer `const` over `let`, avoid `var`
- Use async/await over Promises when possible
- Write descriptive variable and function names

### Python
- Follow PEP 8 style guide
- Use type hints where appropriate
- Write docstrings for functions and classes
- Use Black for code formatting

### General Guidelines
- Write self-documenting code
- Add comments for complex logic
- Keep functions small and focused
- Use meaningful variable names
- Handle errors gracefully

## 🧪 **Testing**

### Running Tests
```bash
# All tests
npm run test:all

# Unit tests only
npm run test:unit

# Integration tests
npm run test:integration

# With coverage
npm run test:coverage
```

### Writing Tests
- Write tests for new features
- Maintain >80% code coverage
- Use descriptive test names
- Test both success and error cases
- Mock external dependencies

## 📚 **Documentation**

### What to Document
- New features and APIs
- Configuration options
- Deployment procedures
- Breaking changes
- Migration guides

### Documentation Style
- Use clear, concise language
- Include code examples
- Add diagrams for complex concepts
- Keep it up-to-date

## 🔒 **Security**

### Security Best Practices
- Never commit secrets or credentials
- Validate all user inputs
- Use parameterized queries
- Follow OWASP guidelines
- Report security issues privately

### Code Review Focus
- Input validation
- Authentication/authorization
- Data sanitization
- Error handling
- Rate limiting

## 🏅 **Recognition**

### Contributors
All contributors will be:
- Listed in CONTRIBUTORS.md
- Mentioned in release notes
- Invited to contributor Discord channel

### Rewards
- Outstanding contributions may receive:
  - NeuroGrid tokens (when launched)
  - Swag and merchandise
  - Conference/meetup invitations
  - Job opportunities

## 📞 **Getting Help**

### Communication Channels
- **GitHub Issues:** Bug reports and feature requests
- **Discord:** [discord.gg/neurogrid](https://discord.gg/neurogrid)
- **Email:** developers@neurogrid.network

### Code Review Process
1. Automated checks (CI/CD)
2. Technical review by maintainers
3. Security review (if applicable)
4. Documentation review
5. Final approval and merge

## 📋 **Issue Labels**

- `good first issue` - Perfect for newcomers
- `bug` - Something isn't working
- `enhancement` - New feature request
- `documentation` - Documentation needed
- `help wanted` - Extra attention needed
- `priority: high` - Important issues
- `security` - Security-related issues

## 🎉 **Thank You!**

Your contributions help make NeuroGrid better for everyone. Whether you're fixing bugs, adding features, improving documentation, or helping other users, every contribution matters.

Together, we're democratizing AI computing! 🚀

---

For questions about contributing, reach out to developers@neurogrid.network or join our Discord community.

Commit message:

feat: comprehensive project quality improvements
- Fixed package.json metadata and npm audit vulnerabilities
- Enhanced CONTRIBUTING.md with detailed contributor guidelines
- Added comprehensive CHANGELOG.md for version tracking
- Fixed PaymentGateway.js syntax errors
- Added missing Python dependencies (colorlog, structlog)
- Enhanced README with GitHub topics for better discoverability
- Created detailed API_EXAMPLES.md with usage patterns
- Completed security audit and dependency updates

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to NeuroGrid 🚀

Thank you for your interest in contributing to NeuroGrid! This document provides guidelines and information for contributors.

## � Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Development Process](#development-process)
- [Submitting Changes](#submitting-changes)
- [Style Guidelines](#style-guidelines)
- [Community](#community)

## 🤝 Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it is governed by our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.

## 🏁 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** >= 18.0.0
- **npm** >= 8.0.0  
- **Python** >= 3.8 (for node-client)
- **Git**

### Development Setup
```bash
# 1. Fork and clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/neurogrid.git
cd neurogrid

# 2. Install dependencies
npm install
cd coordinator-server && npm install
cd ../web-interface && npm install  
cd ../node-client && pip install -r requirements.txt

# 3. Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# 4. Run tests to ensure everything works
npm run test:all

# 5. Start development environment
npm run dev:all
```

## 📋 **How to Contribute**

### 🐛 **Bug Reports**
1. Check existing issues first
2. Use the bug report template
3. Include:
   - Clear description
   - Steps to reproduce
   - Expected vs actual behavior
   - Environment details
   - Screenshots/logs if applicable

### ✨ **Feature Requests**
1. Open an issue with the feature template
2. Describe the problem you're solving
3. Explain your proposed solution
4. Consider alternatives and trade-offs

### 🔧 **Code Contributions**

#### Pull Request Process
1. **Create a branch** from `main`
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```

2. **Make your changes**
   - Follow code style guidelines
   - Add tests for new functionality
   - Update documentation as needed

3. **Test your changes**
   ```bash
   npm run test:all
   npm run lint
   ```

4. **Commit with conventional format**
   ```bash
   git commit -m "feat: add new GPU allocation algorithm"
   git commit -m "fix: resolve memory leak in node client"
   git commit -m "docs: update API documentation"
   ```

5. **Push and create PR**
   ```bash
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   ```

#### Commit Convention
We use [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org/):

- `feat:` New features
- `fix:` Bug fixes
- `docs:` Documentation changes
- `style:` Code style changes (formatting, etc.)
- `refactor:` Code refactoring
- `test:` Adding or updating tests
- `chore:` Maintenance tasks

## 🎯 **Areas for Contribution**

### 🔥 **High Priority**
- GPU optimization algorithms
- Security enhancements
- Performance improvements
- Documentation improvements
- Test coverage expansion

### 🌟 **Good First Issues**
- UI/UX improvements
- Error message improvements
- Configuration validation
- Logging enhancements
- Example scripts and tutorials

### 🏗️ **Architecture Areas**
- **Coordinator Server** (Node.js/Express)
- **Web Interface** (Next.js/React)
- **Node Client** (Python)
- **Documentation** (Markdown)
- **DevOps** (Docker/CI/CD)

## 📝 **Code Style Guidelines**

### JavaScript/TypeScript
- Use ESLint configuration in the project
- Prefer `const` over `let`, avoid `var`
- Use async/await over Promises when possible
- Write descriptive variable and function names

### Python
- Follow PEP 8 style guide
- Use type hints where appropriate
- Write docstrings for functions and classes
- Use Black for code formatting

### General Guidelines
- Write self-documenting code
- Add comments for complex logic
- Keep functions small and focused
- Use meaningful variable names
- Handle errors gracefully

## 🧪 **Testing**

### Running Tests
```bash
# All tests
npm run test:all

# Unit tests only
npm run test:unit

# Integration tests
npm run test:integration

# With coverage
npm run test:coverage
```

### Writing Tests
- Write tests for new features
- Maintain >80% code coverage
- Use descriptive test names
- Test both success and error cases
- Mock external dependencies

## 📚 **Documentation**

### What to Document
- New features and APIs
- Configuration options
- Deployment procedures
- Breaking changes
- Migration guides

### Documentation Style
- Use clear, concise language
- Include code examples
- Add diagrams for complex concepts
- Keep it up-to-date

## 🔒 **Security**

### Security Best Practices
- Never commit secrets or credentials
- Validate all user inputs
- Use parameterized queries
- Follow OWASP guidelines
- Report security issues privately

### Code Review Focus
- Input validation
- Authentication/authorization
- Data sanitization
- Error handling
- Rate limiting

## 🏅 **Recognition**

### Contributors
All contributors will be:
- Listed in CONTRIBUTORS.md
- Mentioned in release notes
- Invited to contributor Discord channel

### Rewards
- Outstanding contributions may receive:
  - NeuroGrid tokens (when launched)
  - Swag and merchandise
  - Conference/meetup invitations
  - Job opportunities

## 📞 **Getting Help**

### Communication Channels
- **GitHub Issues:** Bug reports and feature requests
- **Discord:** [discord.gg/neurogrid](https://discord.gg/neurogrid)
- **Email:** developers@neurogrid.network

### Code Review Process
1. Automated checks (CI/CD)
2. Technical review by maintainers
3. Security review (if applicable)
4. Documentation review
5. Final approval and merge

## 📋 **Issue Labels**

- `good first issue` - Perfect for newcomers
- `bug` - Something isn't working
- `enhancement` - New feature request
- `documentation` - Documentation needed
- `help wanted` - Extra attention needed
- `priority: high` - Important issues
- `security` - Security-related issues

## 🎉 **Thank You!**

Your contributions help make NeuroGrid better for everyone. Whether you're fixing bugs, adding features, improving documentation, or helping other users, every contribution matters.

Together, we're democratizing AI computing! 🚀

---

For questions about contributing, reach out to developers@neurogrid.network or join our Discord community.
